Downloaded from
YTS.MX
- Am I -- Am I okay here?
Do I look okay. guys?
Official YIFY movies site:
YTS.MX
This is the first year --
I´m supposed to be with --
I´m supposed to be
with Clive Davis
right now in Capri on his yacht.
But I´m with you instead.
My favorite story is when Ivana
was up in Canada one time.
She was selling jewelry.
and she was describing
this watch. and she said.
"This is -- This watch is gold."
She said. "And the dial
is mother of the pearl."
"Mother of the pearl."
It was the best.
She always put "the"
before everything.
"The Donald."
She was very funny.
She had a good sense of humor.
But she botched up
the English language
like you just
can´t even imagine.
She said. "That´s my charm."
WOMAN:
Ivana. How do you feel?
- I feel --
I feel great. I feel great.
- ♫ Welcome to your life ♫
LINDA STASI:
She was the Kardashians
before there were Kardashians.
She was Kris Jenner.
- She was the first influencer.
- I mean. who looked like that?
Giant hair and all that makeup.
The power couple of the ´80s.
DENNIS BASSO:
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Trump.
LINDA:
Glitz. sex. scandal.
You name it. they had it.
PAULA FROELICH: It was.
"Look. We are so glamorous.
We are so fabulous."
- ♫ Everybody wants
to rule the world ♫
- She had the same kind
of raw ambition that he had.
- What if you had said.
"Well. Donald and I are equal"?
- I would have been dead!
[ chuckles ]
CINDY ADAMS:
She said she was his twin.
She wanted to be his master.
not just his mistress.
- Ivana was smarter than Donald.
NIKKI HASKELL:
When they first got married.
he made Ivana become
an American citizen
because he wanted
to be president.
- He never would have been
on "The Apprentice"
without the image
that she created.
- You´re fired.
- And he never would
have been president
without "The Apprentice."
- I´m basically
first Trump wife. okay?
[ laughs ] I´m first lady. okay?
GEORGE WAYNE: She would´ve loved
to have been the first lady.
- You couldn´t knock her down.
She kept getting back up.
That´s -- I mean.
that´s a role model to me.
- ♫ Everybody wants
to rule the world ♫
♫♫
BARBARA WALTERS:
What makes Ivana Trump tick?
IVANA TRUMP: I love to live.
I love life. I like to dance.
I like to eat.
I like to work.
I like my family.
I like to travel.
Uh. I like to live.
And I think
that I like to do things.
I think that what really
makes me interesting.
♫♫
NIKKI:
It came as a great shock
because she was
very much larger than life.
- Ivana was hard-edged.
aggressive. ambitious.
Always perfectly attired.
Always eye-catching.
- She was unflappable.
Just like her hair.
Nothing was going to deter her.
- She wasn´t like anyone else.
She captured
the hearts of the world.
- Ivana Trump had balls.
Like. real big steel balls.
This woman grew up
in communist Czechoslovakia.
♫♫
- My childhood was wonderful.
A lot of people say living
in a communistic country
had to be terrible.
But I got opportunity to excel.
DENNIS:
She´s an only child.
When you´re an only child.
I think no matter
where you´re from.
you have a very different
relationship with your parents.
They´re on top of you.
They´re focused on you.
They´re giving you strength.
WOMAN: She was involved
in competitive skiing.
highly competitive.
DENNIS:
This is a girl with a mission.
And it´s a little bit of luck.
it´s a lot of talent.
and it´s drive.
And she had the drive
like nobody else.
- So. for me.
leaving Czechoslovakia
and getting out of the country.
which you could not get a visa.
You either run or skied away
or -- or whatever.
I just decided to leave.
And. uh -- And that was
most important moment
because it gave me
a life in -- in the West
and in the land of freedom
and opportunity.
the United States!
- And we reap the benefit
of you being here!
[ applause ]
DENNIS:
When she got here.
as many girls do
who are pretty models.
they get involved
in the pretty-models scene.
And she wasn´t doing that.
She treated it
like it was a job.
- ♫ And so we´ll run ♫
- And she was looking
straight ahead
to find the right partner
and create the right life.
LINDA: At that time.
he was a very fancy.
rich developer.
CINDY:
Donald was a realty animal.
But he didn´t know Paris.
He didn´t know London.
He didn´t know a king
and a queen and a princess
if he fell over them.
unless they tried to rent
a three-and-a-half-room
apartment.
So she opened
all of that to him.
GWENDA BLAIR:
When Donald was 30.
he made what
would turn out to be
an incredibly important
decision.
which was to stop off at
a singles bar on the East Side
called Maxwell´s Plum.
♫♫
And that was the night
that he met Ivana Trump.
♫♫
AMY ROBACH: What were
your first impressions
of Donald Trump
the night you met him?
- He was just very smart.
very witty.
He was good-looking.
And the all-American boy.
- Donald talked about
the moment they first met
on "The Oprah Winfrey Show."
- What was the "it" that
let you know that this was it?
- We just got along well.
and there was an energy level
that was there.
And. uh. you know.
who really knows?
Who can define what that is?
- She had the same kind of
raw ambition that he had.
the same absolute veraciousness
and "stop at nothing."
completely transactional way
of dealing with the world.
♫♫
DONALD:
I look at that skyline.
and I really say
it´s the greatest in the world.
It´s the greatest city
in the world.
NIKKI: I don´t think
at that moment in time
he was thinking about getting
married or having children.
- I´d really like
to buy everything
if that were possible.
WALTERS: [ laughs ]
NIKKI: I think he was
thinking about his career
and finding a way
to maneuver himself
into the limelight
in New York City.
- For both Donald and Ivana.
each one was exactly
what they were looking for.
She was looking
for a rich American.
and. for him.
she was this very glamorous
blond model.
really what he´d been after
his adult life.
NANCY COLLINS: They were kind of
the funniest couple together.
I mean.
they were real outsiders.
Here was Donald.
who basically came from Queens
and was trying
to pretend he didn´t.
She was from Czechoslovakia.
and she had an accent.
And she was. like. out of
nowhere. for New York City.
NIKKI: She had a -- a charm that
people loved. even though
they couldn´t understand what
she was saying half the time.
And people would sit at dinner
and they´d go...
And then she´d turn her head and
they´d go. "What did she say?"
- I think it´s a terrific day.
LINDA:
Giant hair and all that makeup
and the crazy dresses and stuff.
She didn´t look like
anybody we´d ever seen.
- Shoulders out to here.
Perfectly made up.
Security waiting
outside the door.
GEORGE: She loved her jewels.
She loved her couture.
She loved her heels.
She loved to have fun.
- She was so adorable.
And she and Donald
were so much in love.
- Donald Trump´s
proposal to you.
Is it true he said.
"If you don´t marry me.
you´ll ruin your life"?
- That´s for sure.
- Doesn´t sound too romantic.
- Okay. [ laughs ]
But we met in August.
He wanted to get married
in February.
And I said I need
a little bit more time
to -- to become to know him.
So eventually we agree on April.
- So the threat worked.
- [ laughing ] Okay.
It work. Okay.
NIKKI: There was an excitement
to the relationship.
I don´t know if Donald felt
that he had met his match.
but he met some woman
that he could really talk to.
LINDA: I think he probably
fell in love with her
´cause she was so much like him.
He was such a narcissist.
It was like
being married to himself.
GWENDA: They were married
less than a year after they met.
And at the very last minute.
Donald presented her
with a prenup
drawn up by his attorney.
Roy Cohn. legendary fixer.
and it was extremely stingy.
- My prenuptial. I did not
understand what I was signing.
Uh. I was younger and I did not
speak very well English.
And. uh. I really --
My parents never had one.
It did not exist
in communistic Czechoslovakia.
- During that last-minute
negotiation over the prenup.
she would say. "Wait a minute.
I´m not doing this."
I think it was very indicative
of how the future would go.
She was never
trying to take over.
but she did hold her own.
CINDY: I remember their wedding
had all sorts of celebrities.
Every single person
who was anybody
wanted to go or was invited
because Donald wanted
everybody who was there.
And he was in his height.
DENNIS:
They were the talk of New York.
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Trump.
Young. tall. attractive.
doing things.
- Ohh! Oh. no!
- I mean. they were the toast.
It was the ´80s.
Nothing was too much. Noth--
It was just unbelievable.
- ´80s New York was really fun.
It was over-the-top.
Money was important.
[ camera shutter clicks ]
Ivana and Donald
were all over the social pages.
And I think they went out
almost every night.
- You couldn´t get
anything hotter.
Both of them adored publicity.
Both of them wanted --
Although they said.
"No. no. No pictures."
they would walk right to
wherever the photographers were.
LINDA:
They were strivers.
They were striving to be
the best and the most accepted
and to be part of
the whole fancy social scene.
which they never really were.
They were always
kind of laughed at.
People looked their noses down
at them as -- as very gauche.
GWENDA:
What Ivana exemplified.
and really much of that era of
the late ´70s. ´80s exemplified.
was a kind of greed.
a kind of focus
on material wealth.
on shininess. glitziest.
getting more. more.
more. more. more.
- She created Donald Trump.
- Because we can do it.
We can...
PAULA: You know.
Donald Trump was just some guy
with a rich daddy.
wanted to be someone.
He was like. "I want this!"
She was like.
"And now I will get it done."
- She said she was his twin.
She wanted to be his master.
not just his mistress.
That might have been partly
where some of it went wrong.
Donald was
the Empire State Building.
and she wanted to be
the Statue of Liberty.
[ Tears for Fears´ "Everybody
Wants to Rule the World" plays ]
♫♫
- ♫ Welcome to your life ♫
WALTERS: You´d have to have been
living under a rock
not to have heard the story
of Donald and Ivana Trump.
They were the golden couple
of the ´80s
who seemed to have it all.
Good-looking and glamorous.
they were an ideal match.
and their luxurious lifestyle.
the best money could buy.
- ♫ Everybody wants ♫
♫ To rule the world ♫
- She could have been
the pretty blond wife
with beautiful clothes who lived
in a fancy triplex in New York
and went around
with her girlfriends every day
and did nothing but shop.
She didn´t want that.
She had a big brain.
- She´s done so much
for Atlantic City.
- Ivana really wasn´t the
"lady who lunched" kind of type.
She played the part.
but she was a businesswoman.
She was a mogul.
[ indistinct conversation ]
NIKKI:
Ivana called me one day.
and she said.
"I´m going to work for Donald."
I said. "Why do you want
to work? You just got married.
Why would you want
to go to work?"
She said. "No. I´m gonna
work hand-in-hand with him."
- She said to Donald.
"I want to work with you."
"Ivana Work."
That was one of the headlines
on the Post years ago.
BARBARA RES:
At that time. they looked
like they were quite in love.
- It´s a little bit different.
- And. um. he wanted
to find a place for her.
- She got a "vice president"
title at the Trump Organization
and she oversaw interior design.
- Ivana was pretty much
the personification
of "Lifestyles
of the Rich and Famous."
and I think she wanted to be.
and it was part
of their marketing.
It was [ as Ivana ]
"Look. We are so glamorous.
We are so fabulous.
Aww. You cannot be us.
But you can!"
- Remember she came from
communist Czechoslovakia.
- Ivana Trump
was Eastern European.
and it´s kind of like
dictator chic. right?
Like. there´s a lot of gilt.
there´s a lot of gold.
there´s a lot of mirrors
and white carpets.
Like. if it ain´t baroque.
don´t fix it. That´s Ivana.
And she made that Trump´s.
like. inimitable style.
♫♫
RES:
The first time I saw her.
I was working
on the Grand Hyatt.
and she was walking around
with Donald.
and I just went. "Whoa."
She was just gorgeous.
NIKKI:
Then Trump Tower came along.
Ivana went to Italy.
and she bought a mountain.
It was like -- I can´t tell you
how gigantic it was.
And it had -- It was
the pink marble for the lobby.
And she and Donald
worked hand-in-hand
on building the Trump Tower.
which was an amazing feat
and really changed the skyline.
as Donald did with many of
his developments. of New York.
- Ivana even goes on
"This Old House"
to show off the interiors
of the newly built Trump Tower.
- What is all this?
These walls are superb.
- It´s a mural which was
painted by the German artist.
They were commissioned by us.
And you can see
the very beautiful workmanship.
24-karat gold.
- Yeah.
- And they spent two months
from morning to evening
to working on this.
RES: By the time Trump Tower
was done.
he was a big. big celebrity.
- He is a chip
off the old block.
- My -- My father. Fred Trump.
- This is -- Right.
- He made it known
that she worked in the business.
She was
"with me in the business."
- Ivana and Donald Trump.
congratulations.
- Thank you so much. Nikki.
Thank you.
- It´s like
having a baby. right?
Tonight you gave birth.
- My second one. right?
[ laughs ]
DENNIS:
I believe that Donald Trump
respected her power
and her vision.
He could trust her.
and she worked for the company.
When she was working.
she was a company girl. 100%.
LINDA:
I think they were very similar
because she was
incredibly ambitious.
incredibly forward.
and not shy at all.
She promoted herself.
She promoted Donald.
She promoted
all their buildings.
She promoted like crazy.
- When Ivana referred
to her husband.
she famously called him
"The Donald."
-Do you really call him
"The Donald"?
- I really started it.
I wasn´t sure --
It´s my bad English. I suppose.
- So it´s "The Plaza."
"the apartment"...
- It´s -- Yes.
- "The husband." "The Donald"?
- Yes.
- Okay.
MAN:
Miss Trump? Miss Trump?
LINDA: She was the Kardashians
before there were Kardashians.
She was Kris Jenner.
- Ivana was the neck
that moved the head.
RES: I don´t know that
he would have done as well
with somebody
that wasn´t as smart as she.
Donald was bright enough --
I mean. no genius --
but Ivana was smarter
than Donald.
♫♫
DENNIS: They were part of
that solid Upper East Side.
She was not part
of the nighttime scene
at all. ever.
I was a little bit
a part of that.
and I´d call her and say.
"Come on."
She says. "No. no. no.
I have a meeting at 8:00 a. m.
with the contractors."
"No. no. no.
At 6:00. I´m on the helicopter
to go to Atlantic City."
[ grumbles ]
And her kids --
her kids were paramount.
♫♫
- Donald and Ivana
had three children --
Donald Jr.. Ivanka. and Eric.
- She just knocked out
those kids one. two. three.
- I love my kids. but I didn´t
want them to get in trouble.
I wanted the discipline
and the schedule.
I think you --
when you keep your kids busy.
you know. they have no troub--
time to get in trouble.
DENNIS:
She was tight. She was strict.
She was a European mother.
- We have an amazing mother.
and she held us
to a very high standard.
- My mother was much more
the old-school
Eastern European
strong disciplinarian.
- I grew up surrounded --
as a little girl --
surrounded
by strong female mentors.
- She didn´t want to be
your new best friend.
She wanted to be your mother.
- And I was flying at 8:00
in the morning after breakfast
with the kids for Atlantic City
on the helicopter.
I was there until 5:00. 6:00.
I would come back home and
to do homework with the kids.
have a dinner with them.
and then I would go --
In ´80s. I had to go
and dress up in the ball gown.
matching shoes.
matching handbag.
the jewelry and all that stuff.
LINDA:
She must have been a good mom
because her kids
really love her.
but I don´t think
she was like what. you know --
"I can do at all."
I think she was mostly business.
NIKKI:
People loved Ivana.
and I think they were
really a great couple.
It´s not enough for
just one person to be fabulous
and the other one
to be sort of mediocre.
- She was as out there
as he was.
She was also as driven
- If Ivana wasn´t involved
in his business.
there would have been
no business.
- Donald Trump
bought The Plaza Hotel
and then put Ivana in charge.
PAULA: She was the manager
of The Plaza.
- I remember he. um --
he was interviewed about that.
you know. and he made a joke.
DAME EDNA: Does he pay you
a very big salary for being...?
[ laughter ]
- Just can´t get away.
- People always talk money
around you. don´t they?
IVANA:
I get one dollar a year.
MAN: One dollar a year.
Do you have any other perks?
DONALD: Yes.
all the dresses she can buy.
and that costs me a lot
of money.
It´s a lousy deal I made.
That´s one of my bad deals.
- A dollar a year and
"all the dresses she can buy."
And it was such
a horrible thing to say.
I mean. it was just -- She was
devastated by that remark.
I mean. he was building her up.
"She ran the casino. and she´s
now gonna do The Plaza Hotel."
She felt very bad about that.
She wanted to please him.
and she wanted him
to respect her.
But I´ll tell you.
they had some kind of a party
for her or something.
and they were applauding her.
And he was like.
"Who the hell are you?"
It was like he wasn´t there.
In his face. I saw the anger.
"What the hell?
People are admiring her?
And I´m standing here?"
GEORGE: There was tension
between Donald and Ivana
because she was becoming
too popular
and getting more press
than he was.
Everyone fell in love
with Ivana.
and I think. deep down.
Donald resented it.
CINDY: She was the one
you went to for The Plaza.
She was the one if you wanted
a room in Atlantic City.
She was the one for everything.
And she was taking
some of the excitement away.
He wasn´t gonna have it.
- What if you had said.
"Well. Donald and I are equal
and I feel very independent"?
- [ laughs ]
I would have been dead!
- She was absolutely
as ambitious as he was
and almost more so.
But the interesting thing is
that she sold them as a couple.
the branding as a couple.
but her --
probably her big mistake
was to make him more famous
than she was
because he started to believe
his own press.
♫♫
NIKKI:
This is the Trump Tower.
This is Donald Trump.
financier. entrepreneur.
consummate businessman.
and the man
behind the Tower project.
And this is Ivana Trump.
the woman behind the man
behind the Tower.
But make no mistake.
Dedicated wife and mother.
she is still her own person
and has her own life
with Donald.
♫♫
They were the perfect couple.
Everything was so great.
And then all of a sudden.
it comes tumbling down.
So. I was having lunch
with Ivana one day.
and just at the end
of the lunch. I said.
"You know. I´ve heard that
Donald is cheating on you."
She goes.
"What are you talking about?"
- She was a diamond
that sparkled.
That´s what he loved.
It´s just that. after a while.
the diamond lost
some of its glistening.
NANCY: How do you know if your
husband´s having an affair?
- Well. if the man suddenly
goes and starts to exercise
and loses thousand pounds
and he is polishing his nails
and he has the. you know --
He goes and he buys the new
suits and -- and all that.
You know. there are usually
signs that this is something
out of the character
of the person.
And if he didn´t do it for you.
who is he doing for?
- Did you see warning signs?
- Uh. I didn´t.
- Hm.
- I didn´t.
RES: He was seeing Marla Maples
at the time.
Maybe everyone in the world
except Ivana knew this.
- For the first several years
of Donald´s affair
with Marla Maples.
he was quite successful
at hiding this from Ivana.
- Marla Maples
was a former beauty queen
and an aspiring model
from Georgia.
GWENDA: Beautiful.
gorgeous. a model.
But soft. Southern.
not hard-edged...
no interest in going
to construction sites.
no interest in being anything
but supportive.
- Marla was -- She was totally.
I mean. you know...
"Look at me
with this 26-year-old hottie."
♫♫
WALTERS: And then came
Christmas. Aspen.
Can you tell us what happened.
what you felt. what you learned?
♫♫
It´s still hard. isn´t it?
- It´s tough.
- Tell us as much
as you can of that day.
You´re on the ski slope
with your kids.
- Uh...
I think it was just --
It was said too many times.
I don´t think
I want to go into it.
♫♫
LINDA:
I was at New York Newsday.
and a friend of mine
called me up and said.
"Oh. my God.
I´m on the ski slopes in Aspen.
And Trump´s girlfriend
just had a confrontation
with Ivana!"
NIKKI:
My girlfriend calls me.
She goes. "You´re not gonna
believe what´s happening."
and this woman. Marla Maples.
I say. "Who´s Marla Maples?"
She said.
"That´s Donald´s mistress."
I said.
"What are you talking about?"
She said. "And Ivana´s crying.
And she´s skiing backwards
and she´s screaming at her."
IVANA: Marla just charged
right behind me.
And she said
in front of my children --
they were about
five feet away --
And Donald was just looking up
like nothing would happen. so...
WALTERS: She said. "I´m Marla.
and I love your husband.
Do you?"
- Yes.
- What did you say?
- I said -- I said. uh --
I said. "Get lost.
I love my husband very much."
It was very unladylike.
but it was as much as I recall.
That was as much as I really --
as harsh as maybe I could be.
LINDA: It was
a very loud confrontation.
[ laughing ]
And a lot of people heard it.
GWENDA: The world reacted
with total fascination
to the soap opera
of soap operas --
Donald and Ivana.
the power couple of the ´80s.
were imploding.
- It was everything
you could possibly imagine.
Glitz. sex. scandal.
You name it. they had it.
The whole world was just.
"Donald and Marla.
Donald and Ivana.
Donald and Marla."
- He got caught.
and Donald loved it.
Donald didn´t care.
He loved all the publicity.
DONALD: I mean. my life
was so great in so many ways --
a beautiful girlfriend.
beautiful wife.
beautiful everything.
- I began to talk
to Donald daily.
Every single day.
I talked to Donald.
She. Ivana. called Liz Smith.
who was my counterpart.
and she told the story.
- Every day
on the front page of the paper.
it was. "I´ve never had sex
like this before."
- What do you think of Marla?
- Um...
I really...
- The truth.
- ...don´t want
to really comment on it.
- Hm. She says
she had nothing to do
with the breakup
of your marriage.
- Wow.
Uh. she´s the woman
in -- in Donald´s life.
- I think that putting a wife to
work is a very dangerous thing.
I mean. we´ll make -- we´ll do
an educational program here.
okay?
If you´re in business
for yourself.
I really think it´s a bad idea
to put your wife
working for you.
There was a great softness
to Ivana.
and she still has that softness.
But during this period of time.
she became an executive.
not a wife.
I think that was
the single greatest cause
of what happened
to my marriage with Ivana.
MAN: The couple that. for many.
symbolized the ´80s
is splitting up.
JOHNNY CARSON:
The Trumps have hit some bumps.
- It was very acrimonious.
It was very nasty.
- "Ivana Better Deal."
The best headline of ´em all!
- She was having such problems
because of the children.
Kids at school
were telling the kids.
"Oh. I hear your parents
are getting divorced
and your father´s
cheating on your mother."
Her main concern
was not subjecting them
to this wrath of the divorce.
NANCY: The women
were on Ivana´s side.
and the men. I suppose.
were on Donald´s side.
They wished
they could pull that off.
So everybody had a stake
in this drama.
Donald wanted to make Marla
acceptable.
not known as a home wrecker.
- He would call up and say.
"Oh. it´s getting nasty."
and then try to promote Marla.
All he was trying to do
was legitimatize Marla
and make it seem like Ivana
was just a big pain in his rump.
NIKKI:
It was pretty terrible.
but Ivana. to her credit.
kept it together like a trouper.
- I just wish him happiness.
He´s father of my children.
and I wish him best.
I hope that she makes him happy.
and if she does.
that´s all what
I really want for him.
WALTERS: You´re very generous
about him.
- He´s father
of my three children.
We have been together
for 13 years.
- There were reports
that last year
Marla Maples wanted
to make amends with you.
- She asked the Daily News
in -- in London
if I would accept her apology.
I said. "Apology
is absolutely not accepted."
I never accept her apology.
She ruined my family
and my marriage.
I just call her the show girl.
That´s all.
- And yet you accepted
Donald´s apology.
Why accept Donald´s apology
and not hers?
- Because he was father
of my three children.
Very good provider.
So this is why.
- How do you forgive
something like that?
It´s not just that
he cheated on her.
He was worldwide!
She was shamed all over
the world as this woman scorned.
Ugh! You don´t forgive that.
♫♫
- In 1992 in the final
divorce settlement.
what Ivana got was $14 million.
a 45-room mansion
in Greenwich. Connecticut.
GWENDA: She got a month a year
at Mar-a-Lago.
plus $600.000 a year
for raising the three children.
- That was seen very good
at the time by most people.
I thought she got a pittance
of what she could have gotten.
- She got the settlement and she
got that house in Connecticut.
She flipped it. and. you know.
immediately doubled her alimony.
as it were.
WALTERS:
Did Donald want the marriage
or does he say. "This is it;
I have to separate"?
- Um. it really was my decision.
Um. I tried for two months.
as you know. until February.
I tried to live with the idea
that I´ve been cheated on
and I´ve been lied to.
And -- And I decided. uh.
that that´s not the life
which I want to live.
WALTERS:
Do you still love Donald?
- Uh. I don´t love Donald
as the woman would love a man.
I do have affection for him.
WALTERS:
Would you ever take him back?
IVANA:
I would not take him back
because I think the whole story
would repeat eventually again.
♫♫
IVANA: Life goes on.
You have to trust in yourself.
You have to believe in yourself.
If you have a confidence.
you -- you can really do
almost anything.
- I think she was
really the epitome
of looking good
is the best revenge
and living well
is the best revenge.
WALTER:
She sounds different.
she looks different.
she is different.
I was invited to the Citymeals
on Wheels Power Lunch for Women.
And that was. like. the big.
big deal to get invited.
And this blonde walks in
with this giant Ronettes hairdo.
Now. these are the most
influential women in New York.
They know everybody.
And we were all like.
"Who the hell is that person?"
I mean. back then.
in the early ´90s.
who got plastic surgery
to really completely
reinvent yourself?
♫♫
- You never looked better.
You want to tell us
about the transformation?
You were always beautiful.
You´re more beautiful.
- If you´re talking about. uh.
uh. uh. makeup. hair. or --
I do believe that women
should take care of themselves.
I do believe in exercise.
I do believe in health food.
I do believe in plastic surgery
if needed.
I do believe
in improving yourself.
- And we were at her house
in Palm Beach.
and I said. "You know.
my fashion show is coming up.
I want you to finale it."
And she said. "Yes!"
[ camera shutter clicking ]
And we made her this rare pale
golden sable coat.
She did that runway show.
It was a surprise.
And the room went crazy.
And we had her come out
to the song
"I´m Every Woman."
- ♫ I´m every woman ♫
♫ It´s all in me ♫
- She managed to not look like
the sad. scorned wife
afterwards.
I mean. at the beginning.
she did.
but -- but post-divorce.
she -- she really
reinvented herself.
- She came out.
and she was like.
you know. in that movie
"The First Wives Club."
- Ladies. we have to be strong
and independent.
And remember.
- What?
- Don´t get mad. Get everything!
- That. still to this day.
is a quotable line
that I think a lot of women
refer to
when they think about
Ivana Trump.
- She got what she wanted
on her own terms
and became the face for divorce.
which for a lot of people.
you still didn´t talk about it.
- Ivana is the original
first wife.
a woman who turned
an untidy divorce
from billionaire Donald Trump
into a battle cry
for women everywhere
to not get even. get everything.
GWENDA: She absolutely followed
the advice that she gave.
She developed
her own business empire...
- It´s nice to see you.
- What a great collection
this is. Ivana.
- Yeah. I´m very proud of it.
GWENDA:
...became a multimillionaire...
- What we have
in our House of Ivana
is a line of cosmetics.
as you see. the perfumes.
I also have a skin care.
We have a line for the body.
We have a line of jewelry
that you can see.
- We´re all wearing it.
- Pearls and all that.
GWENDA:
...and wrote books. was on TV.
cameo roles. talk shows.
advice columnist.
- ♫ Everybody wants
to rule the world ♫
- Ivana even does
a Pizza Hut commercial
with her ex. Donald Trump.
- May I have the last slice?
- Actually. you´re
only entitled to half.
- I mean. how great is that!
You have this
sort of public battle.
you get divorced.
The next thing you know.
both of you are looking fabulous
and you´re making
a national commercial.
- I said to myself. "Wow.
What strength of character."
What a woman.
that she could forgive Donald.
- I think it was Ivana´s way
of. like. sticking it to Marla.
You know. she figured.
"Screw you." you know?
"They want me to do
this commercial with Donald?
I´m gonna do it."
♫♫
- After my divorce
or my separation.
I could not even look at a man.
I said I don´t want to see
another man as long as I live!
Cannot live with them.
you cannot live without them.
- After Donald Trump.
there were two more husbands.
two more divorces.
both Italian men.
- Everybody she went with
was Italian
whose name began with an "R."
So there was Roffredo.
Riccardo. Rossano...
and somebody else.
- Wedding bells are ringing
for one of New York´s
most colorful personalities.
Ivana Trump
is getting remarried.
Ivana´s new husband
is going to be 51-year-old
Riccardo Match--
Mazzucchelli.
DENNIS: So she married
this very attractive.
age-appropriate. at the time.
international businessman.
We actually traveled
with him several times.
and he seemed...okay.
You know. she´s not the easiest
girl to be married to.
She´s important.
She´s in the limelight.
And those were the days
still where she couldn´t
step out of the door
without the paparazzi.
And I just think
that that didn´t work.
Like marriages don´t work.
- He was getting madder and
madder and madder by the fact
that nobody ever called her
Mrs. Mazzucchelli. right?
So I´ll never forget --
we went to Las Vegas
´cause Ivana
was doing a book party.
[ big-band music plays ]
♫♫
So Ivana all the tickets
made out
"Mr. and Mrs. Mazzucchelli."
The room was in the name
of Mr. and Mrs. Mazzucchelli.
We go down to the show.
and it´s Wayne Newton.
And Wayne Newton
comes out on the stage.
He goes. "Ladies and gentlemen.
I am so happy tonight.
My dear friend Ivana Trump
is here!"
And Riccardo got up. walked out.
But he was a great guy.
He was. like. really one
of my favorite husbands.
♫♫
WALTERS: Do you want
to get married again?
- Well. I´m going to be probably
a little bit careful.
but I´ve always been
a family person.
I always like to have a man
with me next to me.
And. uh. you know.
I like the company of the man.
And I don´t think I´m going to
be too long. [ laughs ]
♫♫
NIKKI:
She got remarried again.
married Rossano Rubicondi.
PAULA: It was tumultuous.
but who cares?
Listen. She was fabulous.
- Rossano Rubicondi
was much younger than Ivana.
- She was. like. the original
cougar and proud of it.
Again. this is in
the ´90s and early 2000s
when most women didn´t do this.
or if they did it.
they kept it quiet.
Nope. Not Ivana.
♫♫
- Donald´s sister
officiated the wedding.
So. she pulled me aside.
She hands me this poem.
and I look at the poem
and it says.
"Thou lovest till thou
the end of time."
So I said to her. "You know.
I don´t think
we really need this poem
because I don´t think the
wedding´s gonna last that long."
[ chuckles ] "So let´s just
tear this one up."
You know. he died recently.
and I think that that was
a big setback for Ivana.
They spent a lot of time
together.
- She remained friends
with her last two ex-husbands.
She even writes in her book.
"Two of my best friends
are my ex-husbands.
Riccardo Mazzucchelli
and Rossano Rubicondi."
GWENDA: Up until they split. her
life was very much about him.
Afterwards...
it was about herself.
♫♫
- This is my dining room.
AMY: Walking into
Ivana Trump´s apartment
was like walking into 1985.
Oh. that´s so pretty!
It was walking onto
the set of "Dynasty."
She had tapestries
going up the wall.
And she owned it.
It was all her.
You could tell she designed
and had something to say with
everything in her apartment.
That interview with Ivana Trump.
at the very least.
I can describe it as memorable.
- Sprechen sie Deutsch?
- No. Nein.
- No?
- No. [ laughs ]
One of the most interesting.
fascinating interviews
I´ve ever done.
She was direct.
She was confident.
You knew that she was
somebody not to mess with.
GWENDA: She had been part of
the really early on
creation and image building
of Donald Trump
that would ultimately lead
to the presidency.
- He never would have been
on "The Apprentice"
without the image
that she created.
- You´re fired.
- And he never would
have been president
without "The Apprentice."
- She created so much
of that Trump brand.
I don´t think
she ever got the credit.
- There were suggestions
from the start.
from. you know.
starting in mid-´80s.
of hints of presidency.
but it wasn´t really
a serious suggestion.
- In New York. building
after building bears his name.
He gets more publicity
these days
than almost any movie star.
And some people think
he should be president.
- None of us really thought that
Donald was gonna be president.
You know. um.
I don´t think Donald thought
he was gonna be president.
JOHN ROBERTS:
I. Donald John Trump.
do solemnly swear...
- I. Donald John Trump.
NIKKI:
I think she was very proud
of him becoming President
of the United States
´cause it was something
he always wanted.
I remember
when they first got married.
he made Ivana become
an American citizen
because he wanted
to be president.
GWENDA: Many years later.
that´s what happened.
but when he did finally get
to the White House.
I always felt like she was kind
of in the shadows in some way.
- How often do you two talk?
- Talk about once in 14 days.
- That´s pretty remarkable.
- She also said something about.
"Well. I think
that Melania
must be jealous of me."
which drove Melania insane!
- I had the direct number
to the White House.
but I not really
want to call him there
because Melania is there
and I don´t want to cause
any kind of jealousy
or something like that
because I´m basically
first Trump wife. okay?
[ laughs ]
I´m first lady. okay?
- I don´t think she ever made
a slip of the tongue.
She was much too savvy
to go on national television
and say. "I´m the first
first lady. Oops!"
- I´m pretty sure
it was a little dig.
NIKKI:
It was definitely a dig.
I was actually there
when she said it.
And. of course.
it resonated around the world.
Everybody picked up
on that in one second.
and that became sort of
the mantra of the story.
WOMAN:
In response to these comments.
a spokesperson for Melania Trump
told ABC News today...
- I don´t think
she ever said anything
that was not calculated
for a response.
AMY: And she realized
that Donald Trump´s presidency
created a lot of adversaries.
but she maintained a certain
royal status here in New York.
MAN: Ivana!
[ indistinct shouting ]
♫♫
GWENDA: She was a New Yorker.
and she stayed in New York
and never seemed to have
any interest in leaving.
Her neighbors
saw her walking her dog.
They -- She was friendly.
She was respected and liked
in her community.
MAN: How you been. Ivana?
- Fantastic.
MAN: You look beautiful.
ATILLA CETIN:
That even a walk on the street.
and then people recognize
right away.
"Did you see?
This is Ivana Trump."
And then. "You think
we should talk to her?"
And then she said.
"Yes. come. come.
Ask me.
What do you need to know?"
♫♫
She was a first lady.
She´s our first lady.
GEORGE: She epitomized the ideal
of the lady who lunches.
But that wasn´t her
be-all and end-all.
ATILLA: She always come.
she always sit there
because she sees everyone.
She sees everything.
GWENDA: She seemed to live life
to its fullest
and never shrank in any way.
The hair never shrank.
The shoulder pads never shrank.
The very over-the-top clothing
never shrank.
The makeup. None of it.
GEORGE: They don´t make them
like Ivana anymore. you know?
She could be uptown
in the penthouse.
and she could be downtown
on the pavement
with the kids hanging out
and being just herself
and be the most unpretentious.
the most amazing soul.
the bright light in any room.
♫♫
NIKKI: I had been in New York
for about two or three months
and had seen
quite a bit of Ivana.
Hadn´t seen her in a few weeks.
and I was thrilled at the fact
that she was going
to Saint-Tropez.
You know. Ivana
was completely locked down
when -- when this virus hit.
She -- She just
fell apart. basically.
She didn´t want
to leave the house.
She didn´t want to go anywhere.
She didn´t want to travel.
So it was -- I was sort of
thrilled at the fact
that she was actually
gonna make her first trip.
And I was sitting
in the apartment.
And I got a call from my friend.
And she said. "Ivana´s dead."
NIKKI:
I was always afraid that Ivana
was gonna fall down
these stairs in this house.
I had been saying to her.
"Please. please.
please be careful."
And. you know. Ivana didn´t want
to have anybody in the house.
She didn´t want any security.
She wanted to be --
do her own thing.
be with her dog.
- I got a phone call from
The New York Times. actually.
One of the editors knows me.
And said. "Did you hear the
rumor that Ivana passed away?"
I said. "Now. that´s --
that´s preposterous."
After I called all the numbers.
the assistant. the house number.
Ivana´s number.
and didn´t receive a response.
I then quickly called Eric.
and Eric sent me
a text back saying.
"Can I call you
in a little while?"
I said. "Okay."
but I wrote back texting him
saying. "Is Mom okay?"
♫♫
GEORGE:
I was on my way home from Soho.
and the news pinged
on the phone.
Was just in total shock.
- I heard this. I said.
"How -- How did Ivana die?"
They said.
"She fell down the stairs."
- When I found out Ivana died.
I. uh --
I just got a little sad.
It´s kind of like
when a legend goes
and you´re like.
"Well. pour one out.
Tip that bottle
of Veuve Clicquot. Boom.
There goes another good one."
DAVID MUIR: Here in New York.
a final farewell to Ivana Trump.
MICHAEL STRAHAN:
At a historic Catholic church
here in Manhattan.
WOMAN: Ivana Trump´s
three children are expected
to speak at that service.
- You know.
it´s -- it´s interesting.
Because you never think
about anybody´s legacy
until they´re gone.
IVANA:
I was born in Czechoslovakia.
started from nothing.
I went to West.
I had to work
for everything I have gotten.
GEORGE:
I think Ivana Trump´s legacy
will be a true New York story.
one of a kind.
NIKKI:
She was the first lady.
She was glamorous. beautiful.
smart. fun. delicious.
There wasn´t anybody like Ivana.
There´s never been
anybody like Ivana.
- I don´t dwell on the past
because that´s over and done
for all of us.
- People will remember her
for being the former wife...
of the past President
of the United States...
and the true glamour queen
of the ´80s and ´90s.
But. really. how I know
she wants to be remembered --
as a devoted mother.
IVANA:
Discipline and confidence.
I set myself certain goals.
certain commitments.
You know. courage.
The guts. plain. simple guts.
you know.
to go down that mountain.
or -- or go and come out of
the communistic country
with nothing.
- Her love. her irreverent
attitude towards things.
and the fact that
she was always overdressed
and looking gorgeous
really made it work.
DENNIS: You know. honey.
where the hell did you go?!
It´s. like. a little bit
annoying. You left us too early.
IVANA:
I´m not competing with the man.
No. I´m competing with myself.
But you have to try your best.
That´s all what you can do
at any given moment.
♫♫